Psychology is one of the most crucial aspects of marketing.

If you want to help people, persuade people to take action.

Below, I’ve gone into detail on each of the biases listed to help you do so.

1. Endowment Effect
You attribute more value to something because when you own it, even if it isn’t worth much. You can trigger this bias by personalizing your offer or make the customer imagine owning the item before they buy.

2. Confirmation Bias
People tend to seek out information that confirms their beliefs. For example, most people say that a new car is a good investment and pays for itself over time. Even if there's contradicting info, they'll often ignore it.

3. Choice Overload Bias
People hate making wrong decisions. Too many options will often confuse people and decrease the chances of them buying.

4. Halo Effect
This is the tendency of one trait to make something unrelated seem more attractive. If you want people to see your product as beneficial, associate it with people, brands, and things viewed in a positive light.

5. Empathy Gap
The empathy gap happens when we base our decisions off our emotional state. You can evoke emotions by using storytelling in your marketing.

6. Foot-In-Door Technique
The foot-in-the-door technique works on the principle of consistency. People don’t like to contradict themselves, so as long as the request is consistent with the original small request, there’s a higher chance of agreement.

7. Loss Aversion
People hate losing money. Use risk reversals and guarantees in your marketing to eliminate this.

8. Commitment Bias
Commitment bias is our tendency to remain committed to our past behaviors, especially those shown publicly. Building a brand people identify with is one of the best ways to get repeat buyers (ie. Nike and Apple customers).

9. Reciprocity Bias
The reciprocity bias is the theory that if someone does something for you, you’ll feel the need to return. Giving freebies or doing something extra can influence people to give you a positive review.